[docs] Add internal and external testing instructions and a TestFlight guide (#47940)
expo/expo: docs/pages/submit/testflight.mdx

---
title: Distribute an iOS app with TestFlight
sidebar_title: TestFlight

> description: Learn how to get an iOS build onto tester's devices with TestFlight, and when to use internal versus external TestFlight testing.

Reviewer: **[nit]** Plural possessive: plural nouns ending in "s" add only an apostrophe (`expo-docs-style-guide.md#punctuation`). The description refers to multiple testers.

```suggestion
description: Learn how to get an iOS build onto testers' devices with TestFlight, and when to use internal versus external TestFlight testing.
```

---

import { Collapsible } from '~/ui/components/Collapsible';
import { ContentSpotlight } from '~/ui/components/ContentSpotlight';
import { NoIcon } from '~/ui/components/DocIcons';
import { FAQ } from '~/ui/components/FAQ';
import { Prerequisites, Requirement } from '~/ui/components/Prerequisites';
import { Terminal } from '~/ui/components/Snippet';
import { Step } from '~/ui/components/Step';

**TestFlight** is Apple's internal and beta app distribution service. After you create an iOS production build, your app can reach testers' devices through TestFlight before the app is released publicly on the App Store.

> There are two kinds of testing and the difference decides how quickly your build reaches your app users. **Internal testing** goes to your own App Store Connect team and is available as soon as the build finishes processing. **External testing** reaches anyone else but you have to add the App Store Connect build to a group, which has to clear Apple's Beta App Review process.

Reviewer: **[suggestion]** The last sentence is 27 words with two clauses joined by "but" and a trailing relative clause (`expo-docs-style-guide.md#voice-and-tone`). One idea per sentence reads better mid-task.

```suggestion
There are two kinds of testing and the difference decides how quickly your build reaches your app users. **Internal testing** goes to your own App Store Connect team and is available as soon as the build finishes processing. **External testing** reaches anyone else. However, you have to add the build to a group in App Store Connect, and the group's first build must clear Apple's Beta App Review process.
```

<Prerequisites>
  <Requirement title="Paid Apple Developer account">
    A paid Apple Developer account is required to submit apps to the Apple App Store. Sign up on the
    [Apple Developer Portal](https://developer.apple.com/account/).
  </Requirement>
  <Requirement title="An app record in App Store Connect">
    `eas submit` creates an app record automatically on App Store Connect when you submit your first
    build. Create an app by clicking **Create app** in [App Store
    Connect](https://appstoreconnect.apple.com/). Alternatively, use the [App Store Connect
    API](https://developer.apple.com/documentation/appstoreconnectapi) to create an app record
    programmatically or set `ascAppId` in your `submit` profile in **eas.json** to skip creating an
    app record.
  </Requirement>
  <Requirement title="Production build">
    TestFlight only accepts builds with `"distribution": "store"` set in **eas.json**, which is
    default for an [EAS Build](/build/introduction/) `production` profile. See [Build a production
    app](/submit/ios/#build-a-production-app) for instructions.
  </Requirement>

>   <Requirement title="Install TestFlight app">

Reviewer: **[nit]** `Requirement` titles end up in the heading map, so keep them noun phrases like the other three on this page (`expo-docs-components.md#prerequisites-and-requirement`).

```suggestion
  <Requirement title="TestFlight app">
```

    Testers need the [TestFlight app](https://apps.apple.com/us/app/testflight/id899247664)
    installed on their iOS device to install and test your app.
  </Requirement>
</Prerequisites>

## Quick start

If you have an Apple Developer account and nothing else set up yet, you can use the following command to create an app record on App Store Connect, build a production **.ipa**, and submit it to TestFlight:

<Terminal
  cmd={{
    npm: ['$ npx testflight'],
    yarn: ['$ yarn dlx testflight'],
    pnpm: ['$ pnpm dlx testflight'],
    bun: ['$ bunx testflight'],
  }}

> />

Reviewer: What do you think about listing the long-form command as well and mentioning that this is a shorthand? Also that you can build and submit separately (if you're built your app already you can _just_ submit it and a rebuild isn't necessary)

Author: Done.

The above command creates your credentials, runs a production build on EAS Build, and submits it for internal testing via TestFlight. The rest of the guide covers internal and external testing in more detail.

## Internal versus external testing

Before you can publicly release your app on Apple App Store, you can distribute it to testers through TestFlight in two ways: **Internal testing** and **External testing**. The difference is how quickly your build reaches your testers:

| Purpose                 | Internal testing                     | External testing                                                                       |
| ----------------------- | ------------------------------------ | -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| Who can test your app   | Users on your App Store Connect team | Anyone. Testers do not need an App Store Connect account.                              |
| Maximum testers allowed | 100                                  | 10,000 per app                                                                         |

> | Beta App Review         | <NoIcon />                           | **Required** on the first build added to a group                                       |

Reviewer: "Version" might be a bit more intuitive?

```suggestion
| Beta App Review         | <NoIcon />                           | **Required** on the first build of every app version                                    |
```

| How testers are invited | Email only                           | Email, CSV import, or a shareable public link                                          |
| Beta app description    | <NoIcon />                           | **Required** for external testing. This is the description that appears in TestFlight. |
| Feedback email          | <NoIcon />                           | **Required** for external testing. This is the email that appears in TestFlight.       |
| Time to reach testers   | Immediately after processing         | After Beta App Review approves the build                                               |
| Build expiry            | 90 days from upload                  | 90 days from upload                                                                    |
| Devices per tester      | 30                                   | 30                                                                                     |

> > **warning** **Internal distribution is not internal testing**. Both of these terms sound identical. **EAS** [internal distribution](/build/internal-distribution/) produces an [ad hoc or enterprise-signed build](/build/internal-distribution/#overview-of-distribution-mechanisms), which are installed from a URL and are limited to registered device UDIDs. TestFlight internal testing needs `"distribution": "store"` and goes through Apple.

Reviewer: **[nit]** UDID is not on the list of abbreviations that skip expansion, so spell it out on first mention (`expo-docs-style-guide.md#word-usage`).

```suggestion
> **warning** **Internal distribution is not internal testing**. Both of these terms sound identical. **EAS** [internal distribution](/build/internal-distribution/) produces an [ad hoc or enterprise-signed build](/build/internal-distribution/#overview-of-distribution-mechanisms), which are installed from a URL and are limited to registered unique device identifiers (UDIDs). TestFlight internal testing needs `"distribution": "store"` and goes through Apple.
```

## Set up internal testing

Internal testing goes to your own App Store Connect team and is available as soon as the build finishes processing.

<Step label="1">

### Build and submit

To upload a build to App Store Connect for internal testing, ensure you have a production build created. After that, run the following command to submit it to TestFlight:

> <Terminal cmd={['eas submit --platform ios']} />

Reviewer: **[nit]** `Terminal` lines that start with `$ ` render with a prompt and the copy button strips it; every other `Terminal` on this page and in `submit/ios.mdx` uses the prefix (`expo-docs-components.md#terminal`).

```suggestion
<Terminal cmd={['$ eas submit --platform ios']} />
```

### Create an internal testing group

> **info** Skip this step if you already have an internal testing group. You can add testers to an existing group instead.

In App Store Connect, go to **TestFlight** > click the plus (`+`) icon next to **Internal Testing** > enter the name of the **Internal Group** > click **Create**.

<ContentSpotlight
  alt="Create New Internal Group dialog in App Store Connect with a group name entered"
  src="/static/images/submit/testflight/02-create-internal-group.webp"
/>

Then, click the plus (`+`) icon next to **Testers** to add testers to the group. You can add testers from your App Store Connect team by selecting their emails and clicking **Add**. Testers will receive an email invitation to test your app.

<ContentSpotlight
  alt="New internal testing group with the plus icon to add testers and no testers added yet"
  src="/static/images/submit/testflight/03-internal-group-testers.webp"
  className="max-w-[480px]"
/>

<ContentSpotlight
  alt="Add Testers dialog listing App Store Connect team members available to add to the group"
  src="/static/images/submit/testflight/04-add-testers.webp"
  className="max-w-[480px]"
/>

</Step>

<Step label="4">

> Click the link from the email received on a tester's email. The app will be listed in TestFlight and can be installed from there.

Reviewer: **[suggestion]** "will be listed" and "can be installed" are future tense and passive voice, and "the email received on a tester's email" repeats "email" (`expo-docs-style-guide.md#voice-and-tone`).

```suggestion
On the tester's device, tap the link in the invitation email. The app will appear in TestFlight, from where the tester can install it.
```

> **warning** You must create an **internal** group before App Store Connect will let you create an **external** group.

<Step label="1">

### Create an external group

In **App Store Connect** > **TestFlight** > click the plus (`+`) icon next to **External Testing** > enter the name of the **External Group** > click **Create**.

<ContentSpotlight
  alt="Create a New Group dialog for creating an external testing group in App Store Connect"
  src="/static/images/submit/testflight/05-create-external-group.webp"
/>

</Step>

<Step label="2">

### Use a pre-existing internal build

You can use a pre-existing internal build for external testing. Click **Add Builds** > under **Select a Build to Test**, select the build you want to use > click **Next**.

<ContentSpotlight
  alt="New external testing group showing the Add Builds and Invite Testers steps"
  src="/static/images/submit/testflight/06-external-group-setup.webp"
/>

<ContentSpotlight
  alt="Select a Build to Test dialog listing an uploaded build that is ready to submit"
  src="/static/images/submit/testflight/07-select-build.webp"
  className="max-w-[480px]"
/>

</Step>

<Step label="3">

### Fill in test information

> External testing requires a beta app description and a feedback email before Apple will accept the build for review. If your app has a login, enable **Sign-in Information** and provide a test account for Apple to use. Click **Next**.

Reviewer: **[suggestion]** Use present tense: "before Apple accepts", not "before Apple will accept" (`expo-docs-style-guide.md#voice-and-tone`).

```suggestion
External testing requires a beta app description and a feedback email before Apple accepts the build for review. If your app has a login, enable **Sign-in Information** and provide a test account for Apple to use. Click **Next**.
```

<ContentSpotlight
  alt="Test Information form with a beta app description, feedback email, and contact information filled in"
  src="/static/images/submit/testflight/08-test-information.webp"
  className="max-w-[480px]"
/>

</Step>

<Step label="4">

### Submit for Beta App Review

> Provide the information requested under **What to Test** and click **Submit for Review**. Apple will review the build and notify you by email when it is approved.

Reviewer: **[suggestion]** Use present tense: "Apple reviews the build and notifies you", not "Apple will review the build and notify you" (`expo-docs-style-guide.md#voice-and-tone`).

```suggestion
Provide the information requested under **What to Test** and click **Submit for Review**. Apple reviews the build and notifies you by email when it is approved.
```

</Collapsible>

<Collapsible summary="Why is my build stuck on Missing Compliance?">

App Store Connect is waiting for an answer to the export compliance question and cannot distribute the build to testers until you answer it. Instead of answering it on every upload, answer it once in your app config:

```json app.json
{
  "ios": {
    "config": {
      "usesNonExemptEncryption": false
    }
  }
}
```

Set [`usesNonExemptEncryption`](/versions/latest/config/app/#usesnonexemptencryption) to `false` only when your app uses no encryption beyond what Apple exempts, such as HTTPS through the operating system. The declaration also covers third-party libraries your app links against, and it applies to TestFlight builds, not only App Store releases.

</Collapsible>

<Collapsible summary="Can I add a build to a TestFlight group from the command line?">

Yes, for internal groups. Pass `--groups` with the name of an existing internal group and use `--what-to-test` to set the test notes:

<Terminal

>   cmd={['eas submit --platform ios --groups "QA Team" --what-to-test "New onboarding flow"']}

Reviewer: **[nit]** Missing the `$ ` command prefix, same as the `eas submit` block under "Build and submit" (`expo-docs-components.md#terminal`).

```suggestion
  cmd={['$ eas submit --platform ios --groups "QA Team" --what-to-test "New onboarding flow"']}
```

</Prerequisites>

## Quick start

If you have an Apple Developer account and nothing else set up yet, you can create an app record on App Store Connect, build a production **.ipa**, and submit it to TestFlight with a single command:

<Tabs>

<Tab label="npx testflight">

<Terminal
  cmd={{
    npm: ['$ npx testflight'],
    yarn: ['$ yarn dlx testflight'],
    pnpm: ['$ pnpm dlx testflight'],
    bun: ['$ bunx testflight'],
  }}
/>

The above command creates your credentials, runs a production build on EAS Build, and submits it for internal testing via TestFlight. It is a shorthand for building and submitting in one step with EAS CLI.

</Tab>

<Tab label="EAS CLI">

<Terminal cmd={['$ eas build --platform ios --auto-submit']} />

The [`--auto-submit`](/build/automate-submissions/) flag hands the finished build off to EAS Submit automatically. You can also build and submit as separate steps. If you already have a production build, a rebuild isn't necessary. Submit the existing build directly:

<Terminal cmd={['$ eas submit --platform ios']} />

</Tab>

</Tabs>

The rest of the guide covers internal and external testing in more detail.

## Internal versus external testing

> Before you can publicly release your app on Apple App Store, you can distribute it to testers through TestFlight in two ways: **Internal testing** and **External testing**. The difference is how quickly your build reaches your testers:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Before you can publicly release your app on the Apple App Store, you can distribute it to testers through TestFlight in two ways: **Internal testing** and **External testing**. The difference is how quickly your build reaches your testers:
```

| Beta App Review         | <NoIcon />                           | **Required** on the first build of every app version                                   |
| How testers are invited | Email only                           | Email, CSV import, or a shareable public link                                          |
| Beta app description    | <NoIcon />                           | **Required** for external testing. This is the description that appears in TestFlight. |
| Feedback email          | <NoIcon />                           | **Required** for external testing. This is the email that appears in TestFlight.       |
| Time to reach testers   | Immediately after processing         | After Beta App Review approves the build                                               |
| Build expiry            | 90 days from upload                  | 90 days from upload                                                                    |
| Devices per tester      | 30                                   | 30                                                                                     |

> > **warning** **Internal distribution is not internal testing**. Both of these terms sound identical. **EAS** [internal distribution](/build/internal-distribution/) produces an [ad hoc or enterprise-signed build](/build/internal-distribution/#overview-of-distribution-mechanisms), which are installed from a URL and are limited to registered unique device identifiers (UDIDs). TestFlight internal testing needs `"distribution": "store"` and goes through Apple.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
> **warning** **Internal distribution is not internal testing**. Both of these terms sound identical. **EAS** [internal distribution](/build/internal-distribution/) produces an [ad hoc or enterprise-signed build](/build/internal-distribution/#overview-of-distribution-mechanisms), which is installed from a URL and are limited to registered unique device identifiers (UDIDs). TestFlight internal testing needs `"distribution": "store"` and goes through Apple.
```

### Create an internal testing group

> **info** Skip this step if you already have an internal testing group. You can add testers to an existing group instead.

In App Store Connect, go to **TestFlight** > click the plus (`+`) icon next to **Internal Testing** > enter the name of the **Internal Group** > click **Create**.

<ContentSpotlight
  alt="Create New Internal Group dialog in App Store Connect with a group name entered"
  src="/static/images/submit/testflight/02-create-internal-group.webp"
/>

Then, click the plus (`+`) icon next to **Testers** to add testers to the group. You can add testers from your App Store Connect team by selecting their emails and clicking **Add**. Testers will receive an email invitation to test your app.

<ContentSpotlight
  alt="New internal testing group with the plus icon to add testers and no testers added yet"
  src="/static/images/submit/testflight/03-internal-group-testers.webp"
  className="max-w-[480px]"
/>

<ContentSpotlight
  alt="Add Testers dialog listing App Store Connect team members available to add to the group"
  src="/static/images/submit/testflight/04-add-testers.webp"
  className="max-w-[480px]"
/>

</Step>

<Step label="4">

> 

Reviewer 2: nit: the other steps has a ### heading

> On the tester's device, tap the link in the invitation email. The app will appear in TestFlight, from where the tester can install it.

Author: ```suggestion
### Invite testers

On the tester's device, tap the link in the invitation email. The app will appear in TestFlight, from where the tester can install it.
```

</Step>

> **info** **Tip**: You can also target internal groups directly from the EAS CLI if you have pre-existing internal testing groups. For example, the command `eas submit --platform ios --groups "QA Team" --what-to-test "New onboarding flow"` targets the internal testing group named "QA Team" and sets the "What to Test" description for the build.

## Set up external testing

External testing reaches people outside your App Store Connect team.

> **warning** You must create an **internal** group before App Store Connect will let you create an **external** group.

<Step label="1">

### Create an external group

In **App Store Connect** > **TestFlight** > click the plus (`+`) icon next to **External Testing** > enter the name of the **External Group** > click **Create**.

<ContentSpotlight
  alt="Create a New Group dialog for creating an external testing group in App Store Connect"
  src="/static/images/submit/testflight/05-create-external-group.webp"
/>

</Step>

<Step label="2">

> ### Use a pre-existing internal build

Reviewer 2: Hm maybe just say existing?

```suggestion
### Use an existing internal build
```

> You can use a pre-existing internal build for external testing. Click **Add Builds** > under **Select a Build to Test**, select the build you want to use > click **Next**.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You can use an existing internal build for external testing. Click **Add Builds** > under **Select a Build to Test**, select the build you want to use > click **Next**.
```
